.. _releasenotes:

=============
Release notes
=============

0.11.3
=======
* :class:`~clease.datastructures.mc_step.MCStep` and
  :class:`~clease.datastructures.system_change.SystemChange` instances
  are now savable to json via the ``jsonio`` module.
* Fixed a bug which prevented the primitive to have more than 255 atoms.
* The primitive cell is now always wrapped in the settings object.
* Changing ``db_name`` will check if the primitive exists in the new DB,
  and write it if it's missing.
* ``size`` and ``supercell_factor`` are now stored and managed by the
  :class:`~clease.settings.template_atoms.TemplateAtoms` object.
* Made some adjustments to the compilation process.
* Removed the ``include_background_atoms`` setter in the settings object.
  This value must now be set explicitly in the constructor for consistency reasons.
  For more information, see `#292 <https://gitlab.com/computationalmaterials/clease/-/issues/292>`_.
* Fixes a bug with the :class:`~clease.montecarlo.observers.concentration_observer.ConcentrationObserver`.


0.11.2
=======
* Introduces a new :class:`~clease.datastructures.TransMatrix` dataclass
  for the translation matrix.
* Temporarily restricts ASE to ``<3.23``, until we resolve issues with current ASE master.
* Montecarlo will no longer consider background indices in the default swap move generator,
  if background is ignored.
* Added a new :meth:`~clease.montecarlo.montecarlo.Montecarlo.irun` method,
  for iteratively running MC calculations.
* MC observers can now override
  :meth:`~clease.montecarlo.observers.MCObserver.observe_step` instead, which takes a
  :class:`~clease.datastructures.mc_step.MCStep` object.
* Added a new MC observer: :class:`clease.montecarlo.observers.MoveObserver`.

0.11.1
=======
* Fixed a bug in the ``FixedIndices`` constraint class.
* Greatly improved speed of supercell generation - this mostly affects performance
  concerning large supercells.
* Improved performance of the trans matrix generation.

0.11.0
=======
* Python 3.7+ is now required.
* Removed old deprecated functions and classes.
* Some performance improvements.

0.10.9
=======
* Now caches the CF names if requesting every CF name.
  Chops off some of the computation time during a full reconfigure.
* Introduces a new :class:`~clease.data_manager.FinalStructPropertyGetter`, which
  can be used to get arbitrary properties stored as key-value pairs in the database.
  Use the ``prop`` keyword in the :class:`~clease.evaluate.Evaluate` class to use
  this feature.
* Added the ``check_db`` keyword to :class:`~clease.structgen.new_struct.NewStructures`
* Some minor optimizations

0.10.8
=======
* Fixes an issue with the coefficients generated by the Lasso method.
* Fixes an issue with the interactive convex hull plot.
* No longer opens an extra unnecessary GUI window with interactive plots.
* Fixed a bug with the fingerprint grouping, where the relative tolerance would reduce the
  numerical sensitivity too much.
* Now uses the ``packaging`` package for managing version numbers
  and comparisons. Removes usage of the deprecated distutils version comparisons.

0.10.7
=======
* Fixed :meth:`~clease.settings.ClusterExpansionSettings.view_clusters`, which broke in 0.10.6.
* Adds :meth:`~clease.settings.ClusterExpansionSettings.ensure_clusters_exist` and
  :meth:`~clease.settings.ClusterExpansionSettings.get_all_figures_as_atoms`.
  :meth:`~clease.settings.ClusterExpansionSettings.ensure_clusters_exist` can be used to ensure that the
  ``cluster_list`` and ``trans_matrix`` are constructed, but will not cause a reconstruction if they
  are cached.
* Fixed a deprecation warning of ``normalize=True`` in sklearn's ``Lasso`` method.
* Added a benchmarking suite in the tests directory.

0.10.6
=======
* Fixed a bug in the :class:`clease.convexhull.ConvexHull` where multiple end-points wouldn't always find the
  correct minimum energy structure for that end-point.
* Added :class:`~clease.montecarlo.mc_evaluator.MCEvaluator`.
* The settings class should now be much faster to construct, since the construction of the translation matrix and cluster list is defered until requested.
* The built in GUI (based on Kivy) has been removed, in favor of the new Jupyter based `clease-gui <https://clease-gui.readthedocs.io>`_ package.
* Deprecated the use of ``max_cluster_size`` for specifying clusters in :class:`~clease.settings.ClusterExpansionSettings`.
  Clusters should now be specified only though ``max_cluster_dia``,
  where the size of the cluster is infered from the length of the list. The index 0 corresponds to 2-body clusters, index 1 to 3-body etc.,
  i.e. ``max_cluster_dia = [5, 4, 3]`` would result in clusters of up to diameter 5 Å for 2-body clisters, 4 Å for 3-body and
  3 Å for 4-body.


0.10.5
=======
* Added :func:`clease.logging_utils.log_stream` and :func:`clease.logging_utils.log_stream_context` functions to simplify printing the CLEASE logs to a file.
  The global CLEASE logger can be retreived with :func:`clease.logging_utils.get_root_clease_logger`.

0.10.4
=======

* Fixed a bug with sorting the figures in ``ClusterList`` would cause a de-synchronization
  of the indices, and crashing any further usage.
* Now supports clusters of arbitrary size. Used to be limited to 2-, 3- and 4-body clusters.


0.10.3
=======

* Added convex hull plot, :func:`clease.plot_post_process.plot_convex_hull`
* Fixed a bug in :meth:`clease.structgen.NewStructures.generate_gs_structures` where passing multiple atoms objects was failing
* Structure generation of pure elements should now be using the smallest possible cell.
* Alpha and CV values are now stored in the :class:`clease.evaluate.Evaluate` class after running
  the :meth:`clease.evaluate.Evaluate.alpha_CV` function.
* Added `doc` as an ``extras_require`` in ``setup.py``.
* Other minor bugfixes

0.10.2
=======

* `clease.montecarlo.SSTEBarrier` renamed to `clease.montecarlo.BEPBarrier`

* Added release notes

* Added the :mod:`clease.jsonio` module. This has been applied to the
  :class:`clease.settings.ClusterExpansionSettings`,
  :class:`clease.settings.Concentration` and
  :class:`clease.basis_function.BasisFunction` classes, providing them with
  :func:`save` and :func:`load` functions.

* Tests now automatically run in the pytest temporary directory.

* Moved ``new_struct`` and ``structure_generator`` into the ``structgen`` module.
  These should now be imported from here, instead.

* Fixed a bug, where the current step counter in the :class:`clease.montecarlo.Montecarlo` class
  would not be reset upon starting a new run.
